CraftBook **Variables** is a mechanic that allows for full dynamic circuits
and mechanics. Variables are at the core of CraftBook, and are considered one
of the most powerful features, that allows for incredible things to be done.

## Contents

  * 1 Usage
    * 1.1 Creating Variables
    * 1.2 Syntax
    * 1.3 Namespaces
    * 1.4 Variables in Chat and Commands
    * 1.5 Video Guide
  * 2 Commands
  * 3 Permissions
  * 4 Configuration

##  Usage

A variable is basically a key->value type store, that allows for a value to be
assigned to a line of text. This allows for mechanics and other systems to
have a line of text that stays the same, but can represent a dynamic value
that is always changing.

###  Creating Variables

To create variables, use the commands mentioned later on in the page. Before a
variable can be set, or modified in any way, it first must be defined. The
define command is used to define variables.

###  Syntax

The basic syntax to access a variable is %NAMESPACE|VAR_NAME%, or if you are
using the global namespace, Just %VAR_NAME% can be used.

For example, if you define a variable called MOB to Cow, then on a [MC1200]
put %MOB% on the 3rd line, it would spawn cows, and you could change what it
spawns with CommandBlocks, Commands or CommandSigns. There are also ICs that
can modify variables.

###  Namespaces

Variables can be either public (GLOBAL namespace) or private. Depending on
configuration values set, the default namespace can be either the players
private namespace, or the global namespace.

###  Variables in Chat and Commands

Variables can work in a players chat. If a player says a message containing a
variable they have permission to use, and it's allowed in the configuration,
CraftBook will replace that variable with the value of the variable. This can
allow for more dynamic chat, or to say a variable.

Variables can also be configured to work in commands from other plugins, and
can be configured to be enabled separately in both the Console and Players.
This allows you to have the Console parsing CraftBook variables, for a command
from another plugin. If this syntax breaks a command of another plugin, it is
possible to cancel out the variable syntax by adding \ before each % sign of
the variable.

###  Video Guide

##  Commands

Command  Flags  Permission  Description

/craftbook var define <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Defines the variable with the specified value in the specified namespace.

/craftbook var set <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Sets the variable to the specified value in the specified namespace.

/craftbook var get <Variable>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.get[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Gets the value of the variable in the specified namespace.

/craftbook var delete <Variable>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.erase[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Removes the variable in the specified namespace.

/craftbook var append <Variable> <Text>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Adds more text to the end of the variable.

/craftbook var prepend <Variable> <Text>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Adds more text to the beginning of the variable.

/craftbook var toggle <Variable>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Toggles a boolean variable. Eg, 1 <-> 0, true <-> false, yes <-> no

/craftbook var add <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Adds the value to a numeric variable. This is basically +

/craftbook var subtract <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Subtracts the value from a numeric variable. This is basically -

/craftbook var multiply <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Multiplies the value by a numeric variable. This is basically *

/craftbook var divide <Variable> <Value>

-n <namespace>
craftbook.variables.modify[.self]/[.<namespace>]

Divides the value by a numeric variable. This is basically /

##  Permissions

Permission Node  Effect

craftbook.variables.define

Gives access to the variable define command in any namespace.

craftbook.variables.define.self

Gives access to the variable define command within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.define.namespace

Gives access to the variable define command in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.get

Gives access to the variable access command.

craftbook.variables.get.self

Gives access to the variable access command within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.get.namespace

Gives access to the variable access command in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.erase

Gives access to the variable erase command.

craftbook.variables.erase.self

Gives access to the variable erase command within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.erase.namespace

Gives access to the variable erase command in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.modify

Allows the player to modify any variable.

craftbook.variables.modify.self

Allows the player to modify any variable within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.modify.namespace

Allows the player to modify any variable in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.modify.variable

Allows the player to modify the variable listed.

craftbook.variables.modify.self.variable

Allows the player to modify the variable listed within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.modify.namespace.variable

Allows the player to modify the variable listed in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.use

Allows the player to use any variable.

craftbook.variables.use.self

Allows the player to use any variable within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.use.namespace

Allows the player to use any variable in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.use.variable

Allows the player to use the variable listed.

craftbook.variables.use.self.variable

Allows the player to use the variable listed within their own namespace.

craftbook.variables.use.namespace.variable

Allows the player to use the variable listed in the specified namespace.

craftbook.variables.chat

Allows the player's chat to have variables parsed to their values.

craftbook.variables.commands

Allows the player's commands to have variables parsed to their values.

##  Configuration

Configuration Node and Path  Default Value  Effect

common.variables.enable

true

Enables the variable system.

common.variables.default-to-global

true

When a variable is accessed via command, if no namespace is provided... It
will default to global. If this is false, it will use the players name.

common.variables.enable-in-commandblocks

false

Allows variables to work inside CommandBlocks and on the Console.

common.variables.enable-in-player-commands

false

Allows variables to work in any command a player performs.

common.variables.enable-in-player-chat

false

Allow variables to work in player chat.

